So when reading today’s text,
maybe two questions came to your mind.
One is, What are these
body members on the earth?
And the other one is,
How do we deaden
our body members?
Our text reminds us
of the words of Jesus, when he said,
‘It is better to cut off your hand,
your foot, throw your eye away
rather than being destroyed.’
In Bible language,
the hand, the foot, the eye
often are used to illustrate
what we do with our life.
The hand represents things we do,
or make, with our hands.
The foot represents walking or running
—often connecting it
with where we go in life.
The eye represents our viewpoint, our opinion
—how we look at things,
whether we like them or not.
So, what do the body members mean?
They do not refer
to literal parts of our body
like the hand, the foot, or the eye.
It illustrates our tendencies
as imperfect people.
In our text for today at Colossians 3:5,
Paul lists some of these tendencies.
He said they are “immorality, uncleanness,
“uncontrolled . . . passion, hurtful desire,
(Some translations say “evil desires.”)
and greediness.”
The bad inclinations we have within us
we have from birth.
Greed and bad desires
come quite easily to most of us.
If you put a ball
on a table that is not perfectly level,
the ball will roll down to the lower end.
All humans
are born with that inclination to go down.
So how do we deaden,
or stop, our inclination
toward evil desires and greed?
Simply put, remove them from our life.
But that is not so easy to do
because that inclination is very strong.
So how can we stop our inclinations
from starting to roll?
Well, we’ll discuss five things
that we can do
to keep that ball
of wicked inclinations in place.
Number one: Control our mind.
Jehovah gave us this wonderful tool,
powerful tool
—our mind—
and we can keep
our inclinations under control.
But how do we do that?
Here at Colossians 3:2
it says: “Keep your minds fixed
on the things above.”
So when the mind
wants to go where it should not,
immediately bring it under control.
Stop it from going where it is bad.
We have a choice in what we think about.
Don’t allow that ball
of wicked reasoning to start rolling.
Don’t even think about it.
The more time spent thinking about something
means that it is much more likely
that we will do it.
So the second one:
Control our emotions.
How do we do that?
Well, don’t let our emotions control us.
See our imperfect inclinations
for what they really are.
They are imperfect and they are selfish
—like naughty little children.
When we don’t get our way,
our emotions can become
like a screaming child.
It wants something.
It wants it now.
It does not understand reason,
and the good mother
refuses to give in to the child.
Now, if we’re not careful,
our emotions will take over,
screaming blue murder,
demanding that we get it now.
Let’s read here 1 Corinthians 6:12,
and we’ll read the second part of verse 12:
“All things are lawful for me,
“but I will not let myself
be controlled by anything.”
Number three
(to control our inclinations,
to keep that ball from rolling):
Recognize the danger of greed.
The last part of our text today
at Colossians 3:5 says:
“. . . and greediness,
which is idolatry.”
When we fall prey to greed,
our desires become our master, our god,
and we surrender our will,
and we actually become idolaters
—self-worshippers.
Now, that does not mean
that all desires are bad.
‘Jehovah opens his hand
and satisfies the desire
of every living thing.’
The difference
between normal desire and greed
might be likened to the difference
between the small campfire
that cooks food and the blazing inferno
that consumes a forest.
Number four (to control our inclinations):
Do not be naive.
Let us read here Proverbs 14:15, 16
—Proverbs 14:15, 16:
“The naive person believes every word,
“but the shrewd one ponders each step.
“The wise one is cautious
and turns away from evil,
but the stupid one
is reckless and overconfident.”
Do not for a moment think,
‘Well, this is not going to happen to me.’
Don’t be fooled by your own desires.
Greed can never be satisfied.
It never says, “Enough!”
A brother who was addicted
said this about every time that he gave in;
he said, “I was drawn by a force so powerful
that I did not turn back
until it was too late.”
Once that ball starts rolling,
very little can stop it.
Number five (to stop that inclination):
Be honest with yourself.
Let us read here Romans 7:22, 23
—Romans 7:22, 23.
It says: “I really delight in the law of God
“according to the man I am within,
“but I see in my body another law
“warring against the law of my mind
and leading me captive
to sin’s law that is in my body.”
So it speaks there about a war.
This is war!
Paul was in this war; we are in this war,
and there will be painful injuries.
A soldier, for example,
may damage a limb badly during battle,
and it has to be amputated.
At some point, he has to accept the fact
that he is going to lose a limb
and agree for it to be cut off.
Now, we’re not talking
about literally cutting off members.
But at some point,
we need to face the facts.
We must agree in our heart
that we will give up a habit or a custom
that we feel is as precious
as a hand or a foot or an eye.
This is not a game.
Life depends on this.
Two things: Admit that we have a problem.
And number two:
Do whatever it takes
to root it out of our life.
So in summary,
yes, obey the command
to “deaden . . . your body members.”
The battleground is our own heart.
If we discover an inclination that is bad,
stop it immediately.
Cut it off.
Throw it away.
No harm will come to us.
When we do this, we really begin to live.
It is exactly as the psalmist says
at Psalm 63:
“Your loyal love is better than life.”